# 8

1. _What is this text about?_ This text is about lasers, how do they work,
   and what are their applications.  
2. _What does the word "laser" mean?_ It is abbreviation for "light
   amplification by stimulated emission of radion"  
3. _What is the laser, is it a device of some phenomenon?_ It is a
   phenomenon  
4. _Who was the first to write about lasers?_ T. Maiman created first
   rubin laser.  
5. _What writer from this country wrote a book about a laser?_ Aleksey
   Tolstoy in his novel "Engineer Garin's Hyperboloid"  
6. _What can a laser do?_ Laser can vaporize the hardest and most
   heat-resistant materials. They can solve the problem of controlled
   thermonuclear reaction. They can encode very complex signals. They
   can transmit energy to space stations and further.  
7. _Where can it be used?_ Communication, in thermonuclear physics  
8. _What other uses do you know?_ Processors are built via laser.
   Starlink said that he uses lasers.  

# 9

1. true  
2. single colour  
3. not "next few years" but "quite soon"  
4. They did it in book, wroten by H. Wells  
5. False, they can produce practically limitless source of energy  
6. False, plasma does not have time to disintegrate  
7. False (text says about solar energy)  
8. True  

# 10

## Инфинитив в функции определения

+ It represents the  fulfilment of one of the mankind's oldest dreams of
  technology _to provide_ a light beam intensive enough to vaporize the
  hardest and most heat-resistant materials.  
+ There also exists an idea _to use_ laser for solving the problem of
  controlled thermonuclear reaction.  
+ Besides, there are projects _to use_ lasers for long distance
  communication and for traansmission of energy to space stations, to
  the surface of the Moon or to planets in the Solar system.  
+ These projects have not yet been put into effect, because of the great
  technological difficulties _to be overcome_ and, therefore, the great
  cost involved.  

## Инфинитив в функции дополнения

+ To meet such demands in practice, scientists and engineers must work
  hard as it is clear that a lot of difficulties _are to be encountered_
  on route.  
+ Projects have also been suggested _to place_ lasers aboard Earth
  satellites nearer to the Sun in order to transform the solar radiation
  into laser beams, with this transformed energy subsequently
  transmitted to the Earth or to other space bodies.  
